Dear fellow practitioners, Yen would like to share a
story from Buddhist scriptures.
There was a householder named Visaka who
greatly supported the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha). She was a
devout Buddhist follower of the
Buddha, but in her lay life,
she still wore beautiful clothes and makeup.
Only on days of monastic practice did we
refrain from wearing makeup and beautiful clothes.
For a very long time,
Buddhism in Vietnam was usually
reserved for the elderly. Going
to the temple, especially in the North, meant
wearing robes and longing clothes. Then there was the
story of Lan and Diep. People
thought that those who were disillusioned with life and
heartbroken should go to the temple, and it was something that
people looked at with
apprehension. Gradually, we opened the doors
to Buddhism, and it was brought back to the Buddhist faith. During the reign of
King Tran Nhan Tong,
our Buddhist faith was greatly restored, and
more young people began going to temples. However, they usually
wore men's clothing or robes,
not the
proper attire of lay people.  Lay Buddhist practitioners,
therefore, when we go out into the world,
we are isolated, and lay
Buddhist practitioners at home find it very difficult to
interact with neighbors because, by default, they think that since
they are monks or nuns,
they must dress in a way that is somewhat
shabby or dirty,
right? They're afraid
people will say, "You're a monk or nun, and you're still dressing like that?"
That's a
completely wrong concept. Therefore, Yen
wants all the Buddhist groups in the Golden
Chrysanthemum Club to
dress appropriately for everyday life.
We just shouldn't wear revealing clothes.
Otherwise, we should still wear
traditional Vietnamese dresses and skirts
so that we can bring the Dharma
into life. That is, in life,
morality is important, and we need to
cultivate morality to live a good life and a
beautiful Dharma. So, we must
bring the moral foundation of Buddhism into
life. If we focus on
clothing, we will separate ourselves from
society, and it will be very difficult for us to integrate.  Entering
this society, we are
true Buddhist disciples, following the five precepts. Therefore, on
the 30th of the lunar month, when we go to welcome the spring, everyone should wear the traditional
Vietnamese dress (áo dài). Is that clear? We're not observing the eight precepts for men, okay? So when going to the
temple to welcome the spring, even when participating in the
Ba Vàng Bell Ceremony, we should all wear áo dài and
suits. The Cúc Vàng
Club practices the Six Harmonies, and we must bring the Dharma into life, not let it become something pessimistic or detached from life. We still dress like this, we still worship Buddha, right, dear fellow practitioners? We dress modestly, not wearing skirts to the temple, but wearing the traditional Vietnamese áo dài.
The áo dài represents modesty and grace, the
elegance of a
woman, so
we wear áo dài to the temple because we Buddhists
know how to control ourselves and avoid
immoral behavior. But it must be appropriate for
society. All the temple leaders
inform their fellow practitioners
of this. When Tet comes, we dress beautifully
and go to welcome the spring, while our committees work
elsewhere.  When we're serving at the temple, we bring our ao
dai (traditional Vietnamese dress) and makeup, and then we put on our ao
dai and makeup for the spring festival.
Oh,
[music]